Sentimental Analysis on Twitter Data, Using Data Mining and Text Mining Techniques( Using R software)

Twitter is an amazing micro blogging tool and an extraordinary communication medium. In addition, twitter can also be an amazing open mine for text and social web analyses. Among the different softwares that can be used to analyze twitter, R offers a wide variety of options to do lots of interesting and fun things. In this project I have used RStudio as its pretty much easier working with scripts as compared to R.

According to Wikipedia, Sentiment analysis (also known as opinion mining) refers to the use of natural language processing, text analysis and computational linguistics to identify and extract subjective information in source materials.

Sentiment analysis, also referred to as Opinion Mining, implies extracting opinions, emotions and sentiments in text. As you can imagine, one of the most common applications of sentiment analysis is to track attitudes and feelings on the web, especially for tacking products, services, brands or even people. The main idea is to determine whether they are viewed positively or negatively by a given audience.

The purpose of Text Mining is to process unstructured (textual) information, extract meaningful numeric indices from the text, and, thus, make the information contained in the text accessible to the various data mining algorithms. Information can be extracted to derive summaries for the words contained in the documents or to compute summaries for the documents based on the words contained in them. Hence, you can analyze words, clusters of words used in documents, or you could analyze documents and determine similarities between them or how they are related to other variables of interest in the data mining project. In the most general terms, text mining turns “text into number” which can then be incorporated in other analyses.

Applications of text Mining are analyzing open-ended survey responses, automatic processing of messages, emails, etc., analyzing warranty or insurance claims, diagnostic interviews, etc., investigating competitors by crawling their web sites.

In this project “Twitter Analysis using R” , we will perform the Sentiment Analysis and Text Mining techniques on the tweets of some famous celebrity. This project we will do in RStudio which will uses the libraries of R programming languages
